Homework3
=======

1. Find the n/4 number of a list of n numbers.

  **Solution:**  

  This problem is equivalent to the following problem:
  *  finding the k-th number of a list of numbers. (k = n/4)

   Following is the solution to find the k-th number of a list.  
   We can start with randomly selecting a number from the list as a pivot. Using this pivot number, we partition the list of numbers into 2 segements, where the left segament has all elements smaller than the pivot number while the right segament has all elements larger than the pivot number. Suppose, the index of the povit number is **p**;  
    * if k == p, we are done, return list[p] as the result;
    * if k < p, we apply recursion to the list in the range from 0 - p-1, that is to find k-th number in the list[0...p-1];
    * otherwise, k must be bigger than p, in this case, the number we want to find must fall into the right segament. so the number we want to find is (k-p)-th number in list[p+1 .. n-1].     

   **pseudo code is as follows:**  

   ```java
   def partition(A, left, right):
     pivot_index = random(left ,right)
     pivot = A[hi]
     i = left
     for j = left to right - 1
         if A[j] <= pivot
             swap A[i] with A[j]
             i = i + 1
     swap A[i] with A[right]
     return i

    def findKth(list[], left, right, k):
    p = partition(list, left, right)
    if (k == p) return list[p];
    if (k < p) return findKth(list[left...p-1], k);
    else return findKth(list[p+1...,right], k-p);   
   ```
   **Analysis of the algorithm**  

   Using randomized pivot number ensures that on average reduce the input scale by half. so the recursion can be denoted as follows.
   ```
   T(n) = T(n/2) + n
   ```
   solve this recursion:
   Acoording to Master Theorem:  
   a=1, b=2, log1 = 1, so
   T(n) = O(n);  
   therefore the time complexity of this proposed algorithm is O(logn).

2. Show an example where heap sort requires cnlogn steps,c a constant.

  **Solution:**  

  * Given an unsorted array: A[0,...,n-1];  

  Steps:  
  1. build a **max-heap** on the array A[0,...,n-1],where n = A.length.
  2. due to the maximum element of the array is stored at the root A[1], we can delete it and put it into its correct final position by exchanging it with A[n-1].Then we need to max-heapify the children of the root(A[0,...,n-2]) for restoring the max-heap property.
  3. repeat step#2 util the heap is empty.    

  **pseudo code is as follows:**  
   ```   
  Heapsort(A)
  
     //Build-Max-Heap(A)
  A.heap-size = A.length;
  for i = A.length/2 downto 1
      max-heapify(A,i)

      //delete the root and put it to correct position
  for i = A.length -1 downto 2
       exchange A[0] with A[i]
       A.heap-size = A.heap-size -1
       max-heapify(A,0)
   ```
 **example is as follows:**  
 Given an array A = [4,2,5,10,12,8,11],
